In the first case, Xerox will be credited as the main source of income for two years from the day of purchase and the introduction into operation.
In the second case, the tax base will be reduced by 19,700.
Thus, we can regulate, in certain cases, the initial cost of the property and thus regulate the tax base on the tax on the profit.
In the formation of the cost of the property, in order to tax the account, other methods and methods of the cost formation, which are provided by the tax legislation, can be used.
For example, enterprises can use the so-called depreciation premium, which now accounts for 10% of the cost of the property.
The essence of it is that when buying the main funds, we have the right to immediately write off within 10% of the cost of the property to the expense base.
This is a voluntary right, not a duty. Having recorded this approach in accounting policy, enterprises have the right to reduce the tax base to the amount of the depreciation premium.
We also have the right to include the initial cost of the property.
In addition, the interest on the loan, which is often used in the activities of the enterprise or organization, based on the legislation on taxes and fees, can be included in the initial cost of the property and can be taken into account as part of the expenses of the current period.
The expenses for the repair of the property, be it a building, a vehicle, or a computer, always have a place to be in practice.
It should also be borne in mind that the expenses for the repair can be included in the cost of the property, and can be written off immediately.
What is this connected with? If the expenses for the repair were made before the object was taken into account by the organization, then they should be included in the initial cost of the property.
If the repair was made while the object was in operation, then the expenses for the repair are written off immediately.
Let's take a look at a small example of the cost of the property for a building that was purchased by an organization in the summer months, for example, in July.
At the same time, the building has certain shortcomings requiring repair work. The cost of the building when purchased was 15 million rubles, the cost of planned repair work for the building was 2.5 million rubles, the operating period of the building is 10 years.
The first option is that the enterprise decides to enter the building in the summer period, since most of the employees are on vacation, heating is not required, and you can start minimal activity in the summer period, and, as far as possible, carry out planned repairs.
In this case, the cost of the building will be 15 million rubles, and the cost of repairs will be 2.5 million rubles.
The second option is that the enterprise decides to enter the building in the summer period, since most of the employees are on vacation, heating is not required, and you can start minimal activity in the summer period, heating is not required.
Thus, the initial cost of the property may be planned, depending on whether the enterprise has a significant revenue at the moment,
and whether it is worth reducing this revenue to the amount of repairs carried out at the moment or moving it to the next tax periods, and deciding on the management of the enterprise jointly with the accounting and financial services of the enterprise.
Let's look at the advantages and disadvantages of the tax economy or tax payments optimization methods that we have considered earlier when considering the tax planning methods of different tax systems and tax collections.
When planning for a tax system, we have already said that it is important to choose a tax collection object, choose contracts with suppliers and contractors, and some other points.
The most common option for tax optimization at enterprises using a simplified tax system is to choose a contract or replace the contract with a sale on an intermediary basis, especially at the end of the accounting period.
Of course, you can use this method and it will not have any complaints from the tax authorities.
The contract is signed by the client, partner, and the documentation is made in accordance with the terms of the contract and in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation on the rules for the registration of primary accounting documents.
By the way, the contract and the intermediary act are not approved in the unified forms applied in our country for all enterprises, so when using the intermediary contract, you should pay close attention to the form of the intermediary act.
Some enterprises, when planning for payment optimization, often replace the proceeds with a loan contract at the end of the accounting period.
This option of optimization of tax payments will not have any complaints from the tax authorities, perhaps only if the loan was received not from the supplier with whom you worked during the accounting period, but from a completely different legal entity.
Another method of planning for the optimization of the unified tax of an enterprise when using a simplified tax system is the weekly payment method.
The fact is that when receiving payment, for example, in excels, the income is not subject to the inclusion of the revenue, that is, in the tax object of the deposit.
But this scheme is known to taxpayers and is carefully checked for acceptability and adequacy of the terms of the transaction for this enterprise.
The tax planning of the unified tax system for the taxable income provides for two main directions that are related to the desire of the enterprise to apply this system.
The first option is profitable when you have a large revenue, for example, the city center, and your income is high.
If your enterprise is located on the outskirts of the city, then the amount of the unified tax may not suit you due to the minimum income.
In the first case, physical indicators related to the calculation of the unified tax on the taxable income are regulated.
Let's look at a few examples.
For example, a retail enterprise that calculates a unified tax based on the size of the area of no more than 150 square meters.
If the enterprise is not interested in paying this tax, it can simply reconsider, for example, to rent or buy a larger area.
This area will exceed the limit for the application of the unified tax on the taxable income in the size of 150 square meters.
As a result, this enterprise, this type of activity carried out by this enterprise will not fall under this system.
If the enterprise provides transportation services, then a physical indicator is applied to the application of the unified tax system.
The number of cars in your property or those that can be rented for transportation is also applied.
The number of seats is also applied for passenger transportation.
It is logical to draw a conclusion about the increase in the number of cars that will carry out this transportation, or the increase in the number of seats, for example, in the gazelles for passenger transportation.
If, on the contrary, you are not interested in applying the EINVD system, then you can do the following.
For example, an enterprise that provides car services in this region can use the unified tax system on the taxable income for retail services.
As you know, car services are car repairs using spare parts.
Thus, by dividing the contract for the provision of car services into two contracts, as services as such and the implementation of spare parts, you will divide the type of activity, your income into two types.
One type of activity will be taxed in the general tax system or simplified tax system, as you choose.
The other type of activity will be taxed with the unified tax on the taxable income.
The last factor in the tax planning of the EINVD system is the payment date of the settlement in the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation.
I remind you that the unified tax on the taxable income can be reduced for these payments, but only after their actual payment.
The tax planning of the EINVD system, as I said earlier, is associated with some options and methods that are proposed by the Legislative Assembly for the election in Chapter 25 of the Tax Code.
Perhaps the most important element of the tax planning of the EINVD is the composition of direct expenses that you must choose and approve in the business accounting policy.
In accordance with Article 318 of the Tax Code, the minimum amount of direct expenses for the tax on the income of the enterprise consists of three main elements.
These are the expenses for the payment of labor of the workers engaged in production activities, taking into account the payment of the settlement of the unified social tax and pension contributions.
These are the main materials that participate in the production process and amortization of the main funds directly involved in the production process.
For example, we can consider a confectionery factory.
The materials that must be taken into account in the composition of direct expenses can be sugar, nuts, raisins, dried fruits and, of course, the fans in which these sweets are wrapped.
The boxes where the sweets are loaded for the purchase of the customer can be taken into account in the composition of indirect expenses.
I remind you that the difference between direct and indirect expenses in calculating the tax on the income is that direct expenses cannot be taken into account in the composition of the tax base until the product is implemented, and indirect expenses can be taken into account in the tax base as they are implemented.
Thus, having included in the box the candies used as gifts for packaging, they can be written off to the expense base immediately.
The payment of labor, which may and should be taken into account in the composition of direct expenses in the confectionery factory, should include at least the payment of labor of the workers engaged in the production of candies.
The confectionery workshops may include the brigadiers, the head of the workshops, the security service, the cleaning service of these workshops.
They are not directly involved in the production of candies, so they can be included in the composition of indirect expenses.
Then the payment of labor of these workers in the confectionery factory will be written off to the expense base without waiting for the implementation of the candies produced by the confectionery workshops.
The main means that should be taken into account in the composition of direct expenses should include at least the machines, the machining lines with which these candies are produced.
The building in which these machines are located can be taken into account in the composition of direct expenses and indirect expenses.
It all depends on your accounting policy and your planning.
When calculating the tax on profits, optimization of calculations in connection with the choice of the provided legislation on some types of expenses, for example, on penalty sanctions, takes a lot of space.
We will consider the example of the calculation of penalty sanctions related to the implementation of the conditions of economic agreements.
Documentary confirmation of expenses is also important when planning the tax on profits, because expenses for tax deductions are accepted only if they are economically justified and documented.
As we have already considered, unified forms of primary accounting documents and their own developed ones are used for these purposes.
Let's move on to the consideration of an example of the planning of penalty sanctions in order to calculate the tax on profits.
Let's assume that the monthly income of our company is 2 million rubles. The company provides consulting services.
The expenses of this company are mainly related to the salary of the employees of the company and amount to 300 thousand rubles.
The loan amount that the company decided to take in this accounting period is 5 million rubles. The return period is 30 days.
The contract stipulates that the interest rate in the event of a term of the loan return is 5% per year, which is 20,548 rubles per month.
The penalty sanctions for the term of the loan are 3% per day. At first glance, the contract states that we have the right to take loans in any amount that the founder or the head of the company wishes.
In our example, the return period of the loan was extended by 10 days, and the penalty, in accordance with the terms of the contract, will be 1.5 million rubles.
So, when calculating the tax base on the tax on profits, taking into account the interest rate on the loan and the penalty sanctions, the sum will be only 179,452 rubles, due to the fact that the penalty sanctions, which we may not pay yet, and most likely will not pay the borrower, will be minimal.
In the second case, if we do not take the loan contract and do not consider the penalty sanctions as the expenses of the current period, the tax base will be 1,679,452 rubles.
Why is this example given? Despite the possibility and reality of signing such a contract, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when considering the numbers and the reasonability of signing such a contract, the essence of the deal is far from reality.
Because with a monthly revenue of 2 million, it is difficult to return 5 million rubles within a month, which is provided by this loan contract.
Therefore, when checking the tax, such a contract can be taken into doubt and recognized as fictitious. Accordingly, the penalty sanctions, for the amount of which the income was reduced by the accountant of this enterprise, the tax on profits was reduced, can be withdrawn from the tax base and the penalty sanctions are applied.
Tax planning of the United Social Tax is associated with various characteristics on the basis of which this tax is calculated. We have already considered some of them.
The conclusion of the civil law agreements, as we have already said, provides for a reduction in the rate of the United Social Tax as part of the Social Insurance Fund, which is currently 2.9%.
It should be borne in mind that the civil law agreement must contain a certain set of characteristics that are different from the labor contract.
In particular, the civil law agreement must provide for the volume of work that must be performed within a certain period of time, the order of receiving these works, that is, the determination of the quality of these works, and some other conditions.
In addition, some enterprises, in order to reduce the amount of the United Social Tax, pay their employees as a payment of the accounting amounts or the payment of loans.
I do not recommend using these schemes, because, in accordance with the other part of the Tax Code on the calculation of the tax on the income of individuals, the amounts that are given to the employees in the form of accounting amounts or loans and which were not returned in due course are considered when calculating the tax on the income of individuals as the income received by these individuals.
If the employer is trying to save on the United Social Tax, then the individuals who are offered to pay such income are threatened with an additional tax amount at the end of the year.
The outstaffing scheme is very widespread. This is when the employment relations with the workers are replaced in accordance with the labor code for the relations with other enterprises where workers are transferred according to labor contracts.
In other words, the workers who are transferred to subsidiary companies that are on the simplified taxation system are not payers of the United Social Tax.
If this company is in a relationship with the main enterprise, then the employer saves a significant part of the United Social Tax.
Another option for saving the United Social Tax is to divide the labor payment into various payments that are provided by the labor code.
For example, your labor payment can consist of a deposit, a tariff rate, as well as compensation for certain conditions, such as compensation for vacation, compensation for reorganization of the enterprise.
Another form of labor payment is material assistance. In accordance with the tax code, the United Social Tax is not paid or calculated.
It should be borne in mind that compensation is considered with special care and is studied by taxpayers from the following points.
Compensation for unused vacation is often paid by the enterprise in the following way. It is not a temporary labor contract, but an urgent labor contract.
After a short period of no more than three months, the employee is fired and he is paid compensation for unused vacation, which is not included in the United Social Tax.
Such contracts are definitely accepted by taxpayers as fictitious and are considered throughout the payment period. The calculation base for these compensations is added to the United Social Tax, fines and penalties.
Tax planning of the tax on the added value is associated with the main two indicators, from which the amount of taxes in the budget is calculated.
The first indicator is the amount of taxes on the added value, which is subject to payment in the budget received in the reporting period of income. The second indicator is the amount of VAT, which is subject to repayment from the budget based on the expenses received in the reporting period.
How can we reduce the performance of goods, services and services in the current reporting period? One of the options widely used in practice is to divide the contract into components.
We have already considered this option in other taxes, but there are nuances in the tax on the added value. Therefore, I think it is necessary to consider this option as an example.
For example, you purchase a product for 100,000 rubles, two sets of equipment and are going to implement it.
The price of the implementation can be both the price of the release and the price of the release, which provides for penalty sanctions for non-compliance with any obligations, for example, for a product that was not accepted in time in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The first option is calculated by the amount of taxes on the added value, which is shown on the screen. In this case, the income will be 200,000 rubles, and the amount of VAT will be 30,508 rubles. This amount should be reflected in the tax declaration during the reporting period.
In the second case, we assume that our buyer did not accept the product in time, he accepted the product only two days later, that is, the later term of the established contract, due to the fact that we carry additional transport costs.
Simple transport also requires some investments, so we apply penalty sanctions to this supplier. In this case, the price in the contract is set at 80,000 rubles, and the penalty sanctions are set at 20,000 rubles.
Thus, if we know in advance that the supplier, due to some circumstances, for example, will delay the reception of equipment for the repair of warehouse premises, we can choose the second option.
If these options are not applied systematically, then most likely the tax authorities will accept such a calculation of the tax base on the taxes added to the contract.
I must say that the tax authorities are against such an approach, but arbitration courts that were considered under such agreements were always carried out in favor of the taxpayer.
There are also several options for optimizing the tax added cost that is offset from the budget.
If the invoice that you received from the supplier of goods, services, and services does not meet the requirements, the tax authorities require the invoice to be corrected, the invoice to be replaced.
There are several ways to do this. For example, you can show the invoice incorrectly and send it back to the supplier. The invoice will be returned to you after a certain time, and you will be able to use it.
You can also investigate your supplier on the subject of the reality of his activities. This was indicated in the decision of the Supreme Arbitration Court No. 53, October 12, 2006, which was already mentioned earlier.
You thus show due consideration, and due to the fact that the supplier may cause you doubts for any reason, you can devote a certain time to finding out his location, the reality of his activities, and checking his identification.
In this case, the invoice will also be accepted with a certain delay as per the registration in the magazine of the correspondent at your enterprise.
Why and when is the delay for tax deductions applied? The fact is that if your tax deductions in the reporting period exceed the amount to be paid to the budget from the received income, the enterprise, without exception, undergoes a payroll check.
You are invited to the tax inspection with documents confirming tax deductions. Such a policy has been carried out by the tax inspection not so long ago, since 2007.
This meeting with tax officials takes a lot of time and effort. Therefore, if you do not want to or do not have time for this, you can refuse to submit a tax declaration in the amount not exceeding the amount to be paid to the budget.
What are the consequences of the tax deductions?
What is the responsibility of the tax office in accordance with the violations of the legislation of the Russian Federation or other countries?
In Russia, any person who was identified as a perpetrator of a violation of the law is recognized as guilty.
All enterprises, individual entrepreneurs, as well as individuals who have hidden their income for any reason or have miscalculated their income, will be obliged to pay fines and fines for incorrectly calculated income if the period of search is not more than three years.
The exception to this general rule is the sanctions under articles 120 and 122 of the First Tax Code. In the event of a gross violation of the rules of accounting for income and expenses and a non-payment or incomplete payment of the tax amount, there is no period of search for tax deductions.
The main types of violations of the tax legislation of the Russian Federation at the moment are the violation of the rules of accounting for the tax body, for example, you started trading on the market, but did not take into account the location of this activity.
You did not present a tax declaration in time. In this case, in accordance with article 119 of the Tax Code, you must pay at least 100 rubles for each tax declaration or a minimum fine of 20% of the amount calculated according to the tax declaration of income.
If you avoid paying taxes in particularly large amounts, then there is already a corresponding responsibility under the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation.
In general, the development of the tax system, the tightening of the tax checks regime or weakening in this area is associated with the overall economic situation in the country.
For example, during the period of decline, the production of the tax system is generally recognized to reduce tax rates, to reduce the types of taxes, to stimulate the social and economic life of the country.
And vice versa, during the period of rise, taxes are usually raised, increased, and thus the income into the budget is regulated.
If we consider the methods of tax control, then the main methods are admitted to us are chamber checks and exit checks.
Chamber checks are carried out when the enterprises or individual entrepreneurs present tax declarations to the tax authorities.
They are carried out when checking the accountability. As a rule, they are associated with arithmetic errors, with some additional requests, and carried out on the territory of the tax authority.
In the case of exit checks, they are called documentary in another way, the tax authority has the right to visit your enterprise on the basis of the Article 1 of the Tax Code.
Moreover, this meeting will last for two months. Such exit checks are provided no less than once every two years.
Exit checks can be complex, in this case, all types of taxes are checked. Tax on income, GDP, uniform social tax, other taxes can be selective.
That is, on one tax, they can be thematic, that is, on any type of activity, for example, related to the correctness of the calculation of the single tax on the mentioned income.
Tax checks can be counterfeited. In the case of counterfeited checks, the period of periodicity of checks is not limited to legislation, because they are associated with your partners, not with you personally.
Information for tax checks can be obtained from internal or external sources. Internal sources are primarily associated with the rules that are available for service use, developed in the tax structures themselves and are not subject to disclosure.
External sources include the police, the prosecutor's office and the Internet. The site www.compromat.ru is particularly popular.
Often, when tax officers visit this site, they find a lot of information about companies that are engaged in cash, money, places of mass registration and other factors that lead to the optimization of tax coverage.
At present, we have adopted a concept of conducting tax checks. It was adopted not so long ago, in mid-2007, and thus tax authorities have made significant changes to the plan of tax checks.
Previously, tax checks had to be carried out at each enterprise for two years. With the adoption of this concept, the Tax Inspection developed several criteria for assessing risks for including a particular enterprise in the plan of tax checks.
Moreover, these criteria were published for open access and this document is intended for both tax authorities and taxpayers themselves.
Let's consider several main criteria for assessing risks that are laid out in this concept.
If your tax burden is much lower than the average level for any tax or all taxes, this is recognized as a risk for including you in the tax inspection.
If the losses that you have reflected in your accounting or tax reports are repeated systematically for two or three years in a row, this also raises certain doubts.
The enterprise is advised to come to an interview to find out the reasons for such losses. If your explanation of the losses is not convincing, the Tax Inspection may include you in the plan of tax checks.
If the share of tax deductions in the Tax Inspection is more than 89% in the last 12 months, this is also recognized as a risk.
The average monthly salary is lower than the average level in the industry. It may also adversely affect the future of your enterprise. Moreover, the average monthly salary can be easily verified on the Internet.
As a rule, open and transparent companies publish their average income to attract the best employees and clients to develop the stability of their business.
If an enterprise systematically implements intermediary agreements without the presence of a business goal, this is also recognized as a risk.
The enterprise is advised to come to an interview to find out the reasons for such losses. If your explanation of the losses is not convincing, the enterprise may include you in the plan of tax checks.
The enterprise is advised to come to an interview to find out the reasons for such losses. If your explanation of the losses is not convincing, the enterprise may immediately issue a tax return.
The concept of planning tax inspections includes the idea that the existence of such risks does not mean that you are not a good taxpayer and that you will be included in the tax checks.
To do this, if there are objective reasons, you can personally meet with representatives of tax authorities and, as they say, put all the points on the table.
We have already considered the losses that were recorded in the accounting report for two or three years of this enterprise.
But in accordance with the Tax Code, some types of losses are taken into account in the tax base and are reflected in the tax declaration. If there are such losses, the risks of tax inspection are not applied.
Such losses include losses from the implementation of land rights, from the theft of property, losses obtained as a result of a fire or natural disasters, losses obtained in past tax periods and revealed in the current period,
losses from the implementation of amortized property, from the implementation of rights of claim on operations with securities. They can be recognized in the tax base and do not pose any risks. This must be taken into account and not be afraid to show them in the tax report.
When does the tax authorities come to ask for relevant documents for verification? And when can this be refused?
The company must be notified in writing about the start and term of the tax inspection. This document should also include a list of documents necessary for tax inspection on a particular tax or a number of taxes.
In particular, the company's founding documents, testimony on the implementation of tax inspections, tax declarations, accounting registers, all licenses that allow you to carry out a particular activity, contracts with suppliers and contractors,
bank and cash registers, primary accounting documents, both unified and non-unified, tax benefits documents, and accounting policy.
It should be borne in mind that all documents must be presented in accordance with the requirements of the legislation within a five-day period.
If you refuse to present documents listed in the notification of tax authorities on the implementation of your tax inspection, you will be fined for each unrepresented document in accordance with the dimensions established in the first part of the Tax Code.
Having studied the methodological materials in more detail and familiarized yourself with the tax legislation on the tax system or taxes, you will be able to choose the tax regime that is most effective for you and your business at the moment.
As you have already understood, each tax system has its advantages and disadvantages. But if the company regularly controls this process, it will be able to pay as much taxes as it can afford at the moment. Good luck to you and your business. Thank you.